---
title: Deploying and Localizing a RIA Services Solutions
TOCTitle: Deploying and Localizing a RIA Services Solutions
ms:assetid: 20847a37-efc9-44ae-af5d-b04c367f9862
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Ff679939(v=VS.91)
ms:contentKeyID: 31136447
ms.date: 08/19/2013
mtps_version: v=VS.91
---

# Deploying and Localizing a RIA Services Solutions

\[WCF RIA Services Version 1 Service Pack 2 is compatible with either .NET framework 4 or .NET Framework 4.5, and with either Silverlight 4 or Silverlight 5.\]

After you have created a WCF RIA Services application in a development environment, it remains to deploy and localize the application. This topic describes procedures for this tasks and a topic on how to troubleshoot some common issues that arise when deploying a RIA Services solution.

## Deploying a RIA Services Solution

To deploy your RIA Services solution, you must make sure that the .NET Framework 4 and IIS are installed on the Web server, the RIA Services assemblies are available to the application, and the Web.config file on the Web server has been properly configured with the required values. For more information on how to publish a RIA Services application, see [A Guide to Deploying RIA Services Solutions](ff426912\(v=vs.91\).md).

## Troubleshooting the Deployment of a RIA Services Solution

Troubleshooting a RIA Services solution presents a unique challenge because an exception can occur at one of many different layers. You need to understand how these different layers report errors to effectively troubleshoot your application. For more information, see [Troubleshooting the Deployment of a RIA Services Solution](ff426913\(v=vs.91\).md).

## Localizing a RIA Services Solution

In a RIA Services solution, you can provide localized values in both the client and server project. The domain service will provide the correct version of the values based on the user's language preference. For more information, see [Walkthrough: Localizing a Business Application](ff679940\(v=vs.91\).md).

