---
title: 'Walkthrough: Installing the AdventureWorks OLTP and LT sample databases'
TOCTitle: 'Walkthrough: Installing the AdventureWorks OLTP and LT sample databases'
ms:assetid: 25c06559-de75-4782-b979-7d179a364c0b
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Gg512107(v=VS.91)
ms:contentKeyID: 33703437
ms.date: 08/19/2013
mtps_version: v=VS.91
---

# Walkthrough: Installing the AdventureWorks OLTP and LT sample databases

\[ **This document was written for WCF Services Version 1 Service Pack 2 and might not be up to date** <br />
Please see [Release Notes](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/releases) or [Changelog](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/blob/main/Changelog.md) for a list of changes since WCF RIA Services \]

The Open Ria Services walkthroughs assume that you have the AdventureWorks OLTP and LT databases installed. This walkthrough outlines the steps needed to create an instance of AdventureWorks OLTP and LT databases.


> [!IMPORTANT]
> Make sure you have a compatible installation of SQL Server 2008 R2 Express with Advanced Services or any retail version. The procedure for installing SQL Server 2008 R2 Express with Advanced Services is outlined in the <A href="gg512108(v=vs.91).md">Walkthrough: Installing and Configuring SQL Server 2008 R2 Express with Advanced Services</A> topic.



> [!WARNING]
> Visual Studio, the Silverlight 4 Developer Runtime and SDK, and Open Ria Services and its Toolkit must also be installed to use the Open Ria Services walkthroughs. The installation points for these programs are provided in the <A href="gg512106(v=vs.91).md">Prerequisites for Open Ria Services</A> topic.


## Installing the Adventure Works OLTP and LT Databases

### To install the Adventure Works sample databases

1.  Download the installer for [AdventureWorks Sample Databases](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=181567)
    

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > By default Windows Server 2008 security is configured to prevent the download of these installers. Changing the security configuration is not recommended on production servers. Please see the Windows Server documentation for information on how to change these settings.


2.  Run AdventureWorks2008R2\_SR1.exe

3.  Click the **I agree the license terms** check box, then click the **Next** button.

4.  Select **Run** in the **File Download** window and then **Yes** in the **User Account Control** window when it appears.

5.  Use the pull down selector **Installation Instance** to choose the instance in which to install the databases from the **Database Selection** windows when it appears.

6.  While it is possible to change the directory where the scripts and data files will be installed, it is recommended that the default be used.
    

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > If the directory is changed, be sure that the account the SQL Server service runs under has read access to this directory.


7.  Ensure that boxes for installing the **AdventureWorks OLTP 2008R2**, **AdventureWorks LT 2008R2**, **AdventureWorks OLTP**, **AdventureWorks LT** databases are all checked. Leave the default for all other databases. Click the **Install** button.

8.  When the installation completes click the **Finish** button.

