---
title: 'How to: Enable Optimistic Concurrency Checks'
TOCTitle: 'How to: Enable Optimistic Concurrency Checks'
ms:assetid: 138a8e3c-7e66-4cfe-9e5d-322f0d163d72
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Gg602748(v=VS.91)
ms:contentKeyID: 34015845
ms.date: 08/19/2013
mtps_version: v=VS.91
---

# How to: Enable Optimistic Concurrency Checks

\[ **This document was written for WCF Services Version 1 Service Pack 2 and might not be up to date** <br />
Please see [Release Notes](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/releases) or [Changelog](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/blob/main/Changelog.md) for a list of changes since WCF RIA Services \]

This topic describes various ways to apply the [RoundtripOriginalAttribute](ff423279.md) checks on entities or entity properties in Open Ria Services to enable optimistic concurrency checking on those entities or types. For context on this procedure, see [Managing Data Concurrency](gg602751.md).

The procedure described in this topic assumes that you have a Open Ria Services application created. The procedures for doing this can be followed in the [Walkthrough: Creating a Open Ria Services Solution](ee707376.md) topic.

### Apply the RoundtripOriginalAttribute on Metadata classes

1.  Open the .metadata.cs file associated with the domain service.

2.  Apply the [RoundtripOriginalAttribute](ff423279.md) to the properties whose values need to be checked when submitting changes to the data store, or to an entire class if you want to check the values of all of the properties contained within the class when submitting changes.

3.  Build (Ctrl+Shift+B) the application.

4.  Click the Show All Files icon in the Solution Explorer to unhide the Generated\_code folder in the client project and open the .Web.g.cs file.

5.  Locate the properties and classes to which you applied the [RoundtripOriginalAttribute](ff423279.md) and confirm that the attribute has been correctly generated.

6.  Note that the properties marked with the [KeyAttribute](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Dd382103) in the metadata also have their corresponding client properties marked with the [RoundtripOriginalAttribute](ff423279.md).

### Using the Designer to Specify Optimistic Concurrency

1.  Open the Designer and select a property in one of the entity classes whose value you want checked when submitting changes to the database.

2.  Go to the **Properties** window and change the value of the **ConcurrencyMode** from **None** to **Fixed** on the dropdown window.

3.  Build (Ctrl+Shift+B) the application.

4.  Locate the properties that have the new concurrency mode and confirm that they have had the [RoundtripOriginalAttribute](ff423279.md) applied to them. Note that they have also had the [ConcurrencyCheckAttribute](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Dd538571) applied to them.

5.  Go back to the **Properties** window and note that the key entities also a **StoreGeneratedPattern** set to **Identity**. This means that their values will be assumed to be unchanged when submitting changes for their entities and the data server value will be used.

