---
title: End-to-EndScenarios
TOCTitle: End-to-EndScenarios
ms:assetid: 0842b7ad-fa6c-4301-ad71-97d3559270b0
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Gg602747(v=VS.91)
ms:contentKeyID: 34015844
ms.date: 08/19/2013
mtps_version: v=VS.91
---

# End-to-EndScenarios

\[ **This document was written for WCF Services Version 1 Service Pack 2 and might not be up to date** <br />
Please see [Release Notes](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/releases) or [Changelog](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/blob/main/Changelog.md) for a list of changes since WCF RIA Services \]

This section contains walkthroughs for a set of common Open Ria Services end-to-end scenarios.

The first two walkthroughs in this section assume that you have completed the [Walkthrough: Creating a Open Ria Services Solution](./ee707376) and continue from the application created with the procedures described there.

The last two walkthroughs in this section assume that you have already created a Silverlight Business Application. The procedure for completing this task is described in the [Walkthrough: Using the Silverlight Business Application Template](./ee707360).

## In This Section

  - [Walkthrough: Retrieving and Displaying Data From a Domain Service](./ee707367)  
    This topic explains how to call the method on the domain context from a Silverlight application that corresponds to the domain service query method you want to access and then how to apply additional filtering on the results of that query to limit which entities are returned or displayed.

  - [Walkthrough: Editing Data From a Domain Service](./ee707338)  
    In this walkthrough, you learn how to create an interface that enables a user to change the displayed data and to save those changes in the data source.

  - [Walkthrough: Displaying Data in a Silverlight Business Application](./ee796239)  
    In this walkthrough, you learn how to create a Silverlight Business Application that displays data from the sample database on two different Silverlight pages. The first page display data from a table and the second page allows the user to query the data.

  - [Walkthrough: Displaying Related Data in a Silverlight Business Application](./ee796241)  
    In this walkthrough, you learn how to create a Silverlight Business Application that displays data from two related tables in the sample database.

## Related Sections

[Creating Open Ria Services Solutions](./ee707336)

