---
title: WCF RIA Services Class Library Template
TOCTitle: WCF RIA Services Class Library Template
ms:assetid: 559d0af8-c554-460f-9a76-ec9e25e87a74
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Hh180768(v=VS.91)
ms:contentKeyID: 35437168
ms.date: 08/19/2013
mtps_version: v=VS.91
---

# WCF RIA Services Class Library Template

\[WCF RIA Services Version 1 Service Pack 2 is compatible with either .NET framework 4 or .NET Framework 4.5, and with either Silverlight 4 or Silverlight 5.\]

Use the WCF RIA Services Class Library template to develop reusable RIA Services code that is likely to be reused by other RIA Services enabled applications that have Silverlight clients.

## WCF RIA Services Class Library Template

The WCF RIA Services Class Library template is a specialized template that extends upon the Silverlight Class Library template by adding the references required to enable RIA Services.


> [!IMPORTANT]
> The most recent Silverlight SDK and WCF RIA Services Toolkit are required to use this template. For information on installing these prerequisites, see <A href="gg512106(v=vs.91).md">Prerequisites for WCF RIA Services</A>.


For a walkthrough that use this basic template, see the [Walkthrough: Creating a RIA Services Class Library](ee707351\(v=vs.91\).md) topic.

### Deploying the Silverlight Application Template

### Creating a WCF RIA Service Application

1.  Open Visual Studio 2010.

2.  Click **File**, select **New**, and select **Project**. The following dialog box appears.

3.  Select Silverlight in the left pane, and then select **WCF RIA Services Class Library** in the right pane. Click **OK**.
    
    The following assemblies are referenced by this template by default.
    
    1.  mscorlib
    
    2.  system
    
    3.  System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations
    
    4.  System.Core
    
    5.  System.Net
    
    6.  System.Runtime.Serialization
    
    7.  System.ServiceModel
    
    8.  System.ServiceModel.DomainServices.Client
    
    9.  System.ServiceModel.DomainServices.Client.Web
    
    10. System.ServiceModel.Web.Extensions
    
    11. System.Windows
    
    12. System.Windows.Browser
    
    13. System.Xml

## See Also

#### Concepts

[Silverlight Application Template](hh180770\(v=vs.91\).md)

[Silverlight Navigation Application Template](hh180767\(v=vs.91\).md)

[Silverlight Business Application Template](hh180769\(v=vs.91\).md)

