---
title: Visual Studio Templates for Open Ria Services
TOCTitle: Visual Studio Templates for Open Ria Services
ms:assetid: ea10117f-0096-43c4-b024-95383263d0cf
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Hh180771(v=VS.91)
ms:contentKeyID: 35437171
ms.date: 08/19/2013
mtps_version: v=VS.91
---

# Visual Studio Templates for Open Ria Services

\[ **This document was written for WCF Services Version 1 Service Pack 2 and might not be up to date** <br />
Please see [Release Notes](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/releases) or [Changelog](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/blob/main/Changelog.md) for a list of changes since WCF RIA Services \]

Application and library templates for developing Open Ria Services applications are made available in Visual Studio by installing the Silverlight SDK. These provide convenient starting points for developing end-to-end Open Ria Services applications that employ Silverlight clients. For information on installing the SDK, see [Prerequisites for Open Ria Services](gg512106.md).

## In This Section

  - [Silverlight Application Template](hh180770.md)  
    The Silverlight Application template is the most basic application template. It provides the basis for the other Silverlight Application templates available. Use the Silverlight Application template for projects that require only a single Web page and do not require any authentication, or when you just want to design everything from the ground up.

  - [Silverlight Navigation Application Template](hh180767.md)  
    The Silverlight Navigation Application template adds features that implement the Frame and Page controls, URI mapping, Web browser integrated navigation, and browser history integration. Use the Silverlight Navigation Application template for projects that require integration and navigation between two or more web pages.

  - [Silverlight Business Application Template](hh180769.md)  
    The Silverlight Business Application template builds on the Silverlight Navigation Application template, adding built in authentication services, user registration, and localization. Use the Silverlight Business Application template for projects that require these features, as well as integration and navigation between two or more web pages.

  - [Open Ria Services Class Library Template](hh180768.md)  
    The Open Ria Services Class Library template is an extended Silverlight Library template which is setup to work directly with Open Ria Services. Use the Open Ria Services Class Library template to develop reusable Open Ria Services code that is likely to be reused by other Open Ria Services enabled applications that have Silverlight clients.

## External Resources

[Open Ria Services](README.md)

