---
title: Open Ria Services Class Library Template
TOCTitle: Open Ria Services Class Library Template
ms:assetid: 559d0af8-c554-460f-9a76-ec9e25e87a74
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Hh180768(v=VS.91)
ms:contentKeyID: 35437168
ms.date: 08/19/2013
mtps_version: v=VS.91
---

# Open Ria Services Class Library Template

\[ **This document was written for WCF Services Version 1 Service Pack 2 and might not be up to date** <br />
Please see [Release Notes](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/releases) or [Changelog](https://github.com/OpenRIAServices/OpenRiaServices/blob/main/Changelog.md) for a list of changes since WCF RIA Services \]

Use the Open Ria Services Class Library template to develop reusable Open Ria Services code that is likely to be reused by other Open Ria Services enabled applications that have Silverlight clients.

## Open Ria Services Class Library Template

The Open Ria Services Class Library template is a specialized template that extends upon the Silverlight Class Library template by adding the references required to enable Open Ria Services.


{% hint style="warning" %}
**Important:** The most recent Silverlight SDK and Open Ria Services Toolkit are required to use this template. For information on installing these prerequisites, see <A href="gg512106(v=vs.91).md">Prerequisites for Open Ria Services</A>.
{% endhint %}


For a walkthrough that use this basic template, see the [Walkthrough: Creating a Open Ria Services Class Library](ee707351.md) topic.

### Deploying the Silverlight Application Template

### Creating a Open Ria Service Application

1.  Open Visual Studio.

2.  Click **File**, select **New**, and select **Project**. The following dialog box appears.

3.  Select Silverlight in the left pane, and then select **Open Ria Services Class Library** in the right pane. Click **OK**.
    
    The following assemblies are referenced by this template by default.
    
    1.  mscorlib
    
    2.  system
    
    3.  System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations
    
    4.  System.Core
    
    5.  System.Net
    
    6.  System.Runtime.Serialization
    
    7.  System.ServiceModel
    
    8.  OpenRiaServices.Client
    
    9.  OpenRiaServices.Client.Web
    
    10. System.ServiceModel.Web.Extensions
    
    11. System.Windows
    
    12. System.Windows.Browser
    
    13. System.Xml

## See Also

#### Concepts

[Silverlight Application Template](hh180770.md)

[Silverlight Navigation Application Template](hh180767.md)

[Silverlight Business Application Template](hh180769.md)

